---
title: Computer evolution and performace
categories: [Electrical-course,4th_1st]
tags: [computer, programming, electrical, computer_evolution, computer_architecture] 
---

## <u>How do you charcterize  computer evolution?</u>
how do you say computer has evolved?
  - increased processors speed
  - increased memory size
  - decrese component size (computers are becoming smaller)
  - increased memory size
  - increased IO speed and capacity

**Surprisingly**, the one factor to increase in processor speed is the size of
the microprocessor component. This increases the distance between the component
hence increase the performace.  
However the true speed in recent years is the organization of the microprocessor.

computer evolution is categorized as generations:
  - First generation
  - Second generation
  - Third generation
  - Fourth generation
  - Fifth generation

### First generation computers

The first generation computers were based on <mark>vaccum tubes</mark>.
the most famous computer first generation computer was known as **IAS** computer.  

first implemented in the IAS computer is  known as the  **stored-program** concept. This idea is usually attributed to the mathematician *John von Neumann.*

His proposal includes  
  - first 
     - since it does elementary oprations of arithmetic so frequently it needs its own componet it needs a specilized organs for just these oprations
  - second 
    - if a system to be elastic the distinction must be clear between the specific instructions given and the general control organs 
  - third 
    - any complicated task in computer needs considerable memory space
  - forth
    - the device must have organs to transfer informations( it must contain an I/O device)  

With rare exceptions, all of today’s computers have this same general structure  and function and are thus referred to as von Neumann machines

key-notes words
  - **Memory buffer register(MBR)**  
     it contains a word(32 bits) that is going to be stored in a memory or to be sent to I/O
  - **Memory Address Register(MAR)**  
     it contains the address of the word to be written from or read into MBR.
  - **Program counter(PC)**  
     it contains the address of the next instruction to be executed
  - **Instruction register(IR)**  
     it contains 8-bit opcode instruction being executed
  - **Instruction buffer register(IBR)**  
      hold temporarily the righthand instruction from a word in memory. 
  - **Accumulator(AC)**  
    Employed to hold temporarily operands and results of ALU operations

> **word**  is an ordered set of bytes that is a normal unit in which informations is stored
{: .prompt-tip }


