---
title: Computer Architecture 💻 (ARM) assignment
categories: [Electrical-course,4th_1st,computer_architecture]
tags: [electrical, computer,assignment]
---
## historical development
First there was a computer company called <mark>Acorn</mark> that supply desktop computer
for education.A small team within Acorn needed to choose a computer processer
for there next generation computer. And wasn't able to find there needed spec.
So a small team with in Acorn within just 18 month design there own processer
called<mark>  <b>A</b>dvanced <b>R</b>isc <b>M</b>achine</mark>

- load-store Architecture?  
  - if you need to process a value in memory you need to load that memory to the core process it and store it back again   
  - this means that instruction will go through the registers only.
  - no direct manupulation of memory.

- Most instruction can be coditionaly executed
- All instruction are 32 bit(1 word)

## overall cpu structure

## Data type support and representation.
  - bytes
  - half words 
  - words

## Memory system and addressing mode
Addressing Modes in ARM are 
  - Immediate (literal)
    - use "#" sign in front of the number (means the number is a literal) 
    - e.g **MOV R1, #42**
  - Register Addressing 
    - use "R" sign in front of the register number 
    - The value in the register is directly used as the operand for the instruction.
    - e.g **ADD R2, R1, R3**
  - Register Offset Addressing
    - Register offset addressing combines a base register with an offset value to access memory
    - e.g **LDR R4, [R1], #8**
  - Pre-indexed
    - Pre-indexed addressing combines register offset addressing with the ability to update the base register with the calculated address. 
    - e.g **LDR R4, [R1], #8!**
    -  loads a word from memory at the address specified by the value in register R1 plus an offset of 8, and updates the value in R1 to the calculated address.
  - Post-indexed

## instruction set
  

Registers for 32 bit
 has 12 general purpose registers
 and 3 special purpose registers

 R13 is the stack pointer
 R14 is the link register
 R15 is the program counter

### what are ISA?
  instruction set architecture is the set of instructions that a computer can execute. 

